# Release 0.32

:material-calendar: 2022-09-22

## Dependency Manager

Our own @steiler has volunteered to tackle a problem of inter-node dependency management and produced three mighty PRs #1013, #1022, #1026. Dependency Manager (or DM for short) gives containerlab superpowers to decide the scheduling order of the lab nodes.

Scheduling the order of the nodes is important. Nodes with dynamic management IPs should start after the nodes with static IPs, nodes with shared network namespace should start after the donor node is ready, and so on...

These implicit inter-node dependencies are handled by containerlab in the background, so you don't have to worry. Sometimes, though, you may want to influence the order of nodes scheduling yourself. For example, you may want to start a telemetry collector after the network nodes are running. For that reason, a new node property [`wait-for`](../manual/nodes.md#wait-for) has been introduced.

In `wait-for` section, you can specify node names that this node will wait for before being allowed to get scheduled.

## Miscellaneous

* iptables interactions with external bridges have been fixed #982
* dependabot integration will keep watch on the deps used in containerlab and update to latest once available #984
* crpd startup config handling has been fixed in a scenario when some nodes have used startup config and some don't

## Patches

### 0.32.1

* fixed SR Linux IXR-D5 topology specification

### 0.32.2

* support for multi line card SR OS deployments
* fix for cvx nodes sequential boot #1037
* return of the ignite runtime for cvx kind #1063
* added [`auto-remove`](../manual/nodes.md#auto-remove) option for nodes #1056

### 0.32.3

* fix default bridge misuse #1071
* improved auto-remove setting propagation #1065
* added docs for SR OS multi line card configuration

### 0.32.4

* cleanup veth pairs connected to bridges #1090
* fix SSSE3 instruction check #1083
* change sr linux readiness check to use a file-based approach #1084
* display errors which may occur during sr linux startup config apply #1089
