# Release 0.48

:material-calendar: 2023-11-13 · :material-list-status: [Full Changelog](https://github.com/srl-labs/containerlab/releases)

## Improvements to lab cloning

In #1694 @steiler made the lab cloning process really smart. Containerlab will check if the repo already cloned and will not clone it again. Instead it will pull the latest changes from the repo and will change the branch if one was used in the URL.  
Additionally, it is now also possible to copy the URL to a lab file that sits in a subdirectory of the repo. Containerlab will clone the repo and will then look for the lab file in the specified subdirectory.

Another improvement added in #1704 allows you to specify the GitHub URL in its shortest form - `user/repo` - and Containerlab will automatically expand it to the full URL and will clone the repo. This is a very convenient way to quickly deploy labs from GitHub, less typing, less errors, more fun!

Here is a rundown of the new ways you can deploy labs:

<div class="iframe-container">
<iframe width="100%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0QlUZsJGQDo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## SSH key provisioning for Nokia SR OS

[Nokia SR OS](../manual/kinds/vr-sros.md) users get to enjoy a feature that was previously available only for SR Linux - the auto-provisioning of public SSH keys to enable password-less access.

Containerlab retrieves public keys from local files at `~/.ssh` as well as extracts them from the `ssh-agent` if it is running. The keys are then provisioned to the SR OS nodes once they are up and running enabling password-less access to the nodes.

Users will notice that with that change the lab deployment process will take a bit longer as Containerlab will wait for the SR OS nodes to boot up and will provision the keys before proceeding with the rest of the lab deployment.

## Goodbye `vr-` prefix!

For a very long time we used `vr-<NOS>` kind names to denote the VM-based lab nodes - a naming prefix adopted from vrnetlab project. After we introduced a common naming scheme for kind names `<vendor>-<NOS>` we decided to deprecate the old naming scheme and to remove the `vr-` prefix from the VM-based nodes.

Now `vr-nokia_sros` becomes `nokia_sros`, `vr-juniper_vqfx` becomes `juniper_vqfx` and so on. The old names with `vr` prefix are considered deprecated and will be removed later.

## Directory ACLs

Now containerlab will add group ACLs to the lab directory to allow original user to access the lab files without requiring `sudo` #1701.

## Miscellaneous

* Installer script now allows installing `apk` packages #1681
* TLS verification is now skipped when containerlab downloads files from HTTPS locations to allow downloading from self-signed HTTPS servers #1693
* Juniper vSRX lab example added in #1695
* Containerlab now errors early if the link is missing the `:` separator #1691
* Improvements to the devcontainer documentation #1689

## Patches

### 0.48.1

* Do not set `unbound` pubkey authentication option for older ssh clients #1721

### 0.48.2

* fixing error handling during SR OS config push #1723
* setting file ACLs for cloned repos #1720
* SR OS ssh keys to start from index 32 downwards #1724
* setting proper dir permissions for cloned repos #1726

### 0.48.3

* fix [exec command](../cmd/exec.md) failing to filter on the topology nodes #1729

### 0.48.4

* fixed `destroy --cleanup` command not removing lab directory located outside of the current working dir #1738
* fixed `mgmt-net` link provisioning #1741
* fixed setting up unix socket access for gnmi/gnoi and SR Linux 23.10.1 #1740

### 0.48.5

* fixed `destroy -t <dir>` case where topology file referred a directory #1747
* fixed SR OS getting stuck when partial config is used with ssh keys provisioning #1750
* introduced `CLAB_SKIP_SROS_SSH_KEY_CONFIG` env var to skip SSH key provisioning for SR OS #1756

### 0.48.6

* added `exit all` command to SR OS config push to fix prompt handling #1757
