# Release 0.61

:material-calendar: 2025-01-03 · :material-list-status: [Full Changelog](https://github.com/srl-labs/containerlab/releases)

## No manual `NO_PROXY`

Proxies are a pain that every corporate network user has to find a way painkiller for. What makes it even worse is that when adding a proxy to your environment, you have to add a `NO_PROXY` env var for local addresses that you want to reach without a proxy.  
Add to the mix the fact that the industry still can't agree if `NO_PROXY` or `no_proxy` env var name should be used so we have to deal with both.

If you lab topology has nodes that use HTTP to communicate with other nodes of the lab you have to set up a NO_PROXY/no_proxy env var and exclude every single node IP and DNS name of the topology nodes. You can imagine what a time killer this is.

Thanks to @toweber and his work in #2351, Containerlab will automatically inject the NO_PROXY env vars to each node in the lab - [read more in the docs](../manual/nodes.md#env).

## Startup-config support for Cisco IOL

@kaelemc continued to improve IOL support by adding support for startup-config #2347. Now you get a lightweight Cisco IOS-XE system with a decent feature set. Unbelievable!

## Node Name magic variable

To further streamline the topology definition file, @hyposcaler-bot added support for the `__clabNodeName__` magic variable that allows you to dynamically set the node name in the startup-configuration path.

```yaml
name: mylab
topology:
  defaults:
    kind: nokia_srlinux
    startup-config: cfgs/__clabNodeName__.partial.cfg
  nodes:
    node1:
    node2:
```

The above topology will instruct `node1` to use `cfgs/node1.partial.cfg` and `node2` to use `cfgs/node2.partial.cfg`. All with a single default setting provided. Read more about this neat feature in the [nodes section](../manual/nodes.md#startup-config).

## Redeploy command

Many of us redeploy labs dozens times a day. Before #2374 implemented by @axxyhtrx we all have been punching in `sudo clab dep -c -t <topo>` to redeploy a lab. While it worked for a clean redeployment, it wasn't possible to redeploy a lab while keeping the Lab Directory.

Now the [`redeploy`/`rdep`](../cmd/redeploy.md) is a handy and syntactically more pleasant way to redeploy a lab and it supports both scenarios with keeping and without keeping the Lab Directory.

## Miscellaneous

* @jkary fixes the way link tags are displayed for LAGs in #2306
* SR Linux default config gets gRPC servers config blocks to support EDA onboarding #2368
* support for STDIN topologies in `destroy` command #2376
