# Release 0.62

:material-calendar: 2025-01-17 · :material-list-status: [Full Changelog](https://github.com/srl-labs/containerlab/releases)

## Lab Directory path

No one will miss the old behavior of creating [the lab directory](../manual/conf-artifacts.md#identifying-a-lab-directory) in the current working directory. Now we are changing the behavior so that the lab directory is created in the directory where the topology file is located.

Why we did not do this from the beginning? Who knows...

## Public keys export

Containerlab has this super power of fetching your public keys and provisioning them to the supported nodes (Nokia SR Linux and SR OS at this point[^1]).

The extracted keys will now also be visible in the topology export file available in your Lab Directory so that external systems parsing this file could use the public keys if needed.

## Command line completions

A feature that is typically used by power users, but that blows the socks off of regular users. Command line completions. We had it for a very long time, but this time around we revisited the documentation to make sure the snippets still work and also support the shorthand `clab` alias.

[Go check it out.](../cmd/completion.md)

## IPv6 allow rules

When containerlab creates the management docker network (`clab` by default) it sets up the iptables rules in the `DOCKER-USER` chain of the `filter` table to **allow** traffic destined to this network. This rule ensures that external systems can reach the lab nodes.

Unfortunately, we only set up the rules in the ipv4 address family, and with #2397 we fix this for ipv6 as well.

Besides the management network rules, containerlab also sets up rules in the `FORWARD` chain for the [bridge](../manual/kinds/bridge.md) nodes referenced in the topology file. But, again, we missed v6 rules, which are now being added as well (#2401).

## Cisco IOL `save` support

The Cisco IOL node type now supports the [`save`](../cmd/save.md) command that saves the running configuration to the flash memory. #2403 by @kaelemc

## Miscellaneous

* an option to skip sshd settings when using the quick setup script #2381 #2383 by @jklare
* automatic CRLF->LF conversion for Nokia SR OS startup configs #2382 by @jcpvdm
* IOL to support `ethX` interface names #2400 by @kaelemc
* `__clabNodeName__` magic var support for execs #2395
* As we continue with testing of the Transparent Management Interface feature, we are [documenting the steps](../manual/vrnetlab.md#management-interface) needed to set it up.
* removed `publish` nodes property as it was not working/used anymore #2404

## Patches

### 0.62.1

* fix iptables handling for both mgmt network and bridge nodes. The rules are now set up in both directions #2406

### 0.62.2

* do not attempt manipulate iptables rules in the DOCKER-USER chain if it does not exist #2410

[^1]: You can add it for your platform of interest.
