# Release 0.63

:material-calendar: 2025-01-30 · :material-list-status: [Full Changelog](https://github.com/srl-labs/containerlab/releases)

## Gomplate is gone, so does the bloat

For a couple of years Containerlab binary had a dependency on [gomplate](https://github.com/hairyhenderson/gomplate) - a tool that delivers advanced templating capabilities, but does it at a cost of 30MB of binary size. Since we never really used much of gomplate's features, we decided to remove it and add missing templating features based on the users feedback/request.

Containerlab binary size went down from 80 to 40 MB.

## `sudo`-less Containerlab

/// admonition | Work in Progress
    type: danger
The sudo-less feature is still in the works as an issue has been identified with the `~/.config` dir permissions that users report back.

If sudo-less doesn't work for you, please stay tuned, and use `sudo` as before for now.
///

I bet for many users prepending `clab` with `sudo` has become a pattern our finger muscles have remembered for years. Time to get rid of this habit.

Thanks to @vista- work in #2408, Containerlab 0.63.0 ships one of its biggest quality of life features - the ability to run containerlab without `sudo`! Now, hold your horses, it doesn't mean you can run it as a regular user, the need for privileged access is still required to manage Linux things that we do. But now we do this in a more smart and user-friendly way.

Read more about it [in the docs](../install.md#sudo-less-operation) and enjoy!

Given the sheer blast radius this change brings, we are eager to hear your feedback. Ping us on Discord.

## Miscellaneous

* fixed environment substitution so that unset variables are not substituted #2424
* new command: `clab version check` to check if a newer version is available #2420 by @FloSch62
* openconfig server enabled by default for SR Linux #2421

## Patches

### 0.63.1

* fix SUID set in the postinstall script #2430

### 0.63.2

* update podman dependency to not fail on a `~/.config` dir permissions when using sudo-less operation #2431

### 0.63.3

* added subtract template function that was used in SR OS and was removed with gomplate #2435
