# Release 0.65

:material-calendar: 2025-02-20 · :material-list-status: [Full Changelog](https://github.com/srl-labs/containerlab/releases)

## Promiscuous mode for MACVLAN interfaces

MACVLAN interfaces are now created in promiscuous mode by default. #2460

Before this change, users might have noticed that some traffic flows were not passing in and out the interface.

## No need for GitHub token

The download script no longer uses the GitHub API to fetch the latest available release, and instead relies on public GitHub endpoints to fetch it.

This removes the need to provide GitHub token to the download script in the proxy-based environments.

## Env vars support in startup configs

Now it is possible to use [environment variables](../manual/topo-def-file.md#environment-variables) in startup configs. #2471

This enables startup config customization at runtime, by embedding the variables in the startup config body. Both file-based and inline startup configs are supported.

```
❯ cat cfg-with-env.cfg
set / system information location ${SRL_LOCATION:=default-value}
```

The snippet above will have the `SRL_LOCATION` variable set to `default-value` if the variable is not set in the environment and will use the env var value otherwise.

## Miscellaneous

* json output format added to [netem](../cmd/tools/netem/show.md#format) output #2454
* new logging library with structured logging #2449
* updated VS Code extension documentation #2427 #2451

## Patches

### 0.65.1

* fix template export errors when using dummy links #2483
* update termenv dependency to enable colorized logging in ghostty #2482
