# Release 0.68

:material-calendar: 2025-05-05 · :material-list-status: [Full Changelog](https://github.com/srl-labs/containerlab/releases)

## Containerlab REST API (Beta)

Oh boy we have been waiting for this, haven't we?.. And we would've waited for it even longer if it wasn't for @FloSch62, who sat and single-handedly delivered the whole piece.

https://github.com/srl-labs/clab-api-server

The Containerlab's REST API server is a standalone component that you will have to install separately and its source code is kept in its own repo listed above.

The docs are available in the github repo and later on we will merge them in to the Containerlab.dev website as well. For now, we wanted to make sure you give it a go if you have a use case for it and provide your feedback with us. There is a [postman-like collection](https://github.com/srl-labs/clab-api-server?tab=readme-ov-file#-flashpost-collection) for you to have a quick look whats possible and how to use the API.

As a cherry on top, you can also run the REST API server as a container and spin it up using the [tools api-server command](../cmd/tools/api-server/start.md) tree that we have added to the [`clab tools api-server`](../cmd/tools/api-server/start.md) command set.

Let us know how it goes, and share your feedback with us via [Discord](https://discord.gg/vAyddtaEV9).

## Expose labs with ease and sshx

Our rock star engineer - @FloSch62 - took [SSHX integration](../manual/share-access.md) for another spin and simplified the way one could share the lab access by embedding the `clab tools sshx` command set.

Now, to expose the lab you don't need to fiddle with lengthy docker commands anymore, just use [`tools sshx`](../cmd/tools/sshx/attach.md) commands and let us work out the rest.

## FD.io VPP joins Containerlab

Thanks to @pimvanpelt for populating Containerlab' list of supported nodes with the containerized VPP system. [`fdio_vpp`](../manual/kinds/fdio_vpp.md) is the kind to use to easily build labs run with the VPP nodes.

## 6Wind VSR

And if VPP was not enough, please welcome [6Wind VSR](../manual/kinds/6wind_vsr.md) as yet another container-native NOS added to Containerlab. Thanks to @nicoharnois for their contribution!

## OpenWRT

@takalele added support for [OpenWRT](../manual/kinds/openwrt.md) in #2517. If you always wanted to first try this before flashing your home router with it -- it is a great opportunity!

## Miscellaneous

* container health will be shown in the inspect output next to the state #2539
* `inspect` command's json output will now group labs under the lab's name #2552
